+++
title = "Cross-Scale Analysis of Sub-Pixel Variations in Digital Elevation Models"
date = 2017-08-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2017-07-02T10:00:00
time_end = 2017-07-07T15:00:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Terrain is generally modeled on a grid of pixels, assuming that elevation values are constant within any single pixel of a Digital Elevation Model (DEM) (‘rigid pixel’ paradigm). This paradigm can generate imprecise measurements, be-cause it does not account for the slope and curvature of the terrain within each pixel, leading to precious information being lost. In order to improve the precision of in-terpolated points, this paper relaxes the rigid pixel assumption, allowing possible sub-pixel variations (‘surface-adjusted’ paradigm) to be used to interpolate eleva-tion of arbitrary points given a regular grid. Tests based on interpolating elevation values for 5,000 georeferenced random points from a DEM using the rigid pixel paradigm and different interpolation methods (e.g., weighted average, linear, bi-linear, bi-quadratic, bi-cubic, and best fitting polynomials) and different contiguity configurations (i.e., incorporating first and second order neighbors) are presented. Based on these tests, this paper examines the sensitivity of surface adjustment to a progression of spatial resolutions (i.e., 10, 30, 100, and 1000m DEMs), using sub-pixel variations that can be directly measured from 3m resolution LiDAR data."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Advances in Cartography and Giscience 2017 (ICC2017)"
event_url = "http://icc2017.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Washington DC"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "Article/journal/Ghandehari_ICC17.pdf"
url_slides = "Article/journal/Ghandehari_ICC2017_Presentation.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/mehran66/Sub-pixel-Variations-in-DEMs"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = ""

+++

Mehran Ghandehari, Barbara P. Buttenfield, and Carson J. Q. Farmer (2017). 'Cross-Scale Analysis of Sub-Pixel Variations in Digital Elevation Models', In: M. P. Peterson (Ed.), Advances in Cartography and Giscience 2017, Lecture Notes in Geoinformation and Cartography (LNGC), Springer, Cham. pp. 359-373.