+++
title = "Digital Elevation Model Approximation from Stream Networks: A Reversed Approach"
date = 2013-06-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2013-06-07T10:00:00
time_end = 2013-06-09T15:00:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The delineation of stream networks and catchment areas is one the most common applications of Digital Elevation Models (DEMs). In this article, an innovative reversed approach for the approximation of DEMs from stream networks is presented. As a fundamental preprocessing step, the stream networks are sampled with a set of points. Then, a Delaunay triangulation and Voronoi diagram are used to extract the skeleton (medial axis) of stream networks as an approximation of the catchment areas. The catchment areas contain implicit information that is representative of the terrain, and so the elevation points can be extracted along the catchment area boundaries. Furthermore, we employ the stream orders to enrich the elevation data set. Finally, the elevation points are converted into an elevation grid through a raster interpolation method. While an approximation approach, the results show that the proposed method achieves the desired results."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "the 2nd International Conference on the Sensors & Models in Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Conference (SMPR 2013)"
event_url = "http://geospatialeng.ut.ac.ir/en/smpr-2013"

# Location of event.
location = "Tehran, Iran"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "Article/Conference/SMPR13_MehranGhandehari.pdf"
url_slides = "Article/Conference/SMPR13_Ghandehari_Presentation.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
caption = ""

+++

Mehran Ghandehari (2013). 'Digital Elevation Model Approximation from Stream Networks: A Reversed Approach', ISPRS Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on the Sensors & Models in Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing Conference (SMPR 2013), Tehran, Iran, October 5-8, 2013, pp. 175-180.